# Network’s architecture


Ace Network tokenizes consumed traffic and time spent watching the content. These tokens (generated by network nodes) are the basis of the network’s economy.

The network could be divided into three layers.

## First layer

The first layer is represented by the main distributed ledger (blockchain) that stores configuration data, smart contracts, accounts, and transactions. Technically, it is the fork of Stellar with some alterations, like integrated second-layer interaction functionality, an extended set of smart-contract opcodes.


##Second layer

Much smaller blockchains that collect traffic and time metrics from the third layer (client nodes) perform validation and aggregation, generate transaction records and file them to the main (first layer) blockchain. Also, the fork of Stellar, tailored for time and traffic accounting. This fork adds specialized ledger entries and opcodes.  Every 2nd layer blockchain deals only with a small set of accounts and has no need to communicate with others; this enables the second layer's horizontal scalability of the 2nd layer.


## Third layer

The third layer is the network of nodes that run Ace Stream Engine (client software). Every pair of nodes communicate to create and sign transactions to prove amounts of traffic and time consumed/spent by each party. Nodes are responsible for storing and sharing logs of transactions, and data spoofing prevention algorithms use these logs to validate nodes and cut off malicious ones.
