# Ace Time (XAT)

**Ace Time (XAT)** is a utility, algorithmic stablecoin which value is defined by the amount of traffic consumed in relation to that part of person's lifespan which was spent for watching content


## Issuance

There is no initial issuance of XAT.

Ace Times are issued automatically as the part of payment process (when paid for services related to content generation). The issuance amount corresponds to **real** need for this digital currency, according to the algorithm embedded in the system.

Ace Times are being generated by system smart contracts when the Network user consumes traffic, content and services, and pays for them with Ace Bytes. All Ace Bytes received as payment are burned and then replaced with an equal amount of automatically generated Ace Times. XAB/XAT are exchanged at the rate obtained from the DEX (decentralized exchange which is the part of the system).

Automatic generation of Ace Times is being controlled by smart contracts [System Service Payment][9] and [User Service Payment][10].
Examples of automatic generation are available [here][11].

There is no other way Ace Times created. Thus, all Ace Times will represent the very real users' needs in traffic. content, services, etc. in relation to time, spent for its consumption.


## Pricing

Apart of automatic emission, Ace Times priced automatically basing on current traffic costs. Details [here][8]

!!! note ""

    As a result, we get a stable coin that has collateral for the most valuable resource of the online world - traffic/content, and the most valuable resource of the offline world - a person's life time spent watching video content.



[1]: ../glossary/system-smart-contracts.md
[2]: ../services/premium-pool.md
[3]: exchange.md
[4]: ../glossary/system-pools.md#lockedpool
[5]: ../system-tokens/ace-time.md
[6]: ../system-tokens/ace-byte.md
[7]: ../system-tokens/ace-asset.md
[8]: ../traffic-payments/traffic-price.md
[9]: ../list-of-operations/system-service-payment.md
[10]: ../list-of-operations/user-service-payment.md
[11]: examples.md
