# Ace Coin (XAC)

**Ace Coin (XAC)** is a utility, algorithmic stablecoin which value is defined by the amount of traffic consumed in relation to that part of person's lifespan which was spent for watching content


## Issuance

There is no initial issuance of XAC.

Ace Coins are issued automatically as the part of payment process (when paid for services related to content generation). The issuance amount corresponds to **real** need for this digital currency, according to the algorithm embedded in the system.

Ace Coins are being generated by system smart contracts when the Network user consumes traffic, content and services, and pays for them with Ace Tokens. All Ace Tokens received as payment are burned and then replaced with an equal amount of automatically generated Ace Coins. XAT/XAC are exchanged at the rate obtained from the DEX (decentralized exchange which is the part of the system).

Automatic generation of Ace Coins is being controlled by smart contracts [System Service Payment][9] and [User Service Payment][10].

There is no other way Ace Coins created. Thus, all Ace Coins will represent the very real users' needs in traffic. content, services, etc. in relation to time, spent for its consumption.


### Examples

Suppose that account A pays account B for consumed traffic.
Let's take these inputs as an example:

- account A: traffic consumer
- account B: traffic producer
- cost of traffic: 10 XAC
- network fee: 10%
- exchange rate on the system's DEX is 1 XAC for 2 XAT


#### Example 1: payment with XAC

Inputs:

- account A has 10 XAC

In this scenario account A has enough XAC to pay for traffic. New XAS are not created:

- 10 XAC are being charged from account А
- the network fee (1 XAC) credits to the system pool `trafficFeePool` (to be distributed by the terms of Ace Assets program)
- account B gets 9 XAC


#### Example 2: payment with XAT

Inputs:

- account A has 20 XAT

In this scenario account A has no XAC so only XAT are used for payment. 20 XAT are burned and 9 XAC are automatically generated during this payment:

- 20 XAT are being charged from account А (the equivalent of 10 XAC accordingly to the current exchange rate)
- the network fee (2 XAT) is burned, and then:
    - if there are 2 XAT locked in the network then they are put into circulation (unlocked and distributed by the terms of Ace Assets program)
    - if there are no locked XAT then 1 XAC is automatically created (the equivalent of 2 XAT accordingly to the current exchange rate) and credited to the system pool `trafficFeePool` (to be distributed by the terms of Ace Assets
- payment to account B:
    - 18 XAT are burned, 9 XAC are automatically created and credited to the account B
    - if there are 18 XAT locked in the network then they are put into circulation (unlocked and distributed by the terms of Ace Assets program)


#### Example 3: payment with XAC+XAT

Inputs:

- account A has 2 XAC and 16 XAT

In this scenario account A has not enough XAC so XAT are used to pay the difference. 16 XAT are burned and 7 XAC are automatically generated during this payment:

- 2 XAC and 16 XAT (the equivalent of 8 XAC accordingly to the current exchange rate) are being charged from account А
- the network fee (2 XAT) is burned, and then:
    - if there are 2 XAT locked in the network then they are put into circulation (unlocked and distributed by the terms of Ace Assets program)
    - if there are no locked XAT then 1 XAC is automatically created (the equivalent of 2 XAT accordingly to the current exchange rate) and credited to the system pool `trafficFeePool` (to be distributed by the terms of Ace Assets
- payment to account B:
    - 2 XAS are credited to account B from account A
    - 14 XAT are burned, 7 XAC are automatically created and credited to the account B
    - if there are 14 XAT locked in the network then they are put into circulation (unlocked and distributed by the terms of Ace Assets program)


## Pricing

Apart of automatic emission, Ace Coins priced automatically basing on current traffic costs. Details [here][8]

!!! note ""

    As a result, we get a stable coin that has collateral for the most valuable resource of the online world - traffic/content, and the most valuable resource of the offline world - a person's life time spent watching video content.



[1]: ../glossary/system-smart-contracts.md
[2]: ../services/premium-pool.md
[3]: exchange.md
[4]: ../glossary/system-pools.md#lockedpool
[5]: ../system-tokens/ace-coin.md
[6]: ../system-tokens/ace-token.md
[7]: ../system-tokens/ace-asset.md
[8]: ../traffic-payments/traffic-price.md
[9]: ../list-of-operations/system-service-payment.md
[10]: ../list-of-operations/user-service-payment.md
